MassMatrix
==========

MassMatrix Suite for Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics

Last update: Jan 31, 2014
MassMatrix is a database search software package for tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomics.  Among all the similar software tools, MassMatrix has the most complete set of functions.  In addition to the protein and peptide identification and quantitation, it provides novel algorithms for the identification of disulfide bonds, chemical cross-links, single-nucleotide polymorphisms and mutations, and unknown post-translational modifications on proteins using LC-MS/MS.  MassMatrix also has the first and only high-throughput data analysis method for negative LC-mass spectrometry data of anions for protein analysis.  Unlike most of other specialized database search software tools, MassMatrix was initially designed as a generic database search engine with robust algorithms and high performance that can compete with Mascot and SEQUEST.  It has three patent-pending statistical scoring models for ranking peptide and protein matches and provides better sensitivity and specificity than Mascot, SEQUEST, X!Tandem, and OMSSA for analyzing the tandem MS data collected on modern mass spectrometers.
MassMatrix is publicly available both on the web server at http://www.massmatrix.net and as a deliverable software package for personal computers.  A server version for Linux servers and high performance clusters is also available freely on Sourceforge.  A complete manual for installation, usage, and maintenance of both the server version and PC version is available on Sourceforge. 
MassMatrix has gained increasing popularity since its first release in July 2007.  We have published 11 peer-reviewed papers about MassMatrix and its related search algorithms on bioinformatics and proteomics journals.  There have been more than 300 citations on MassMatrix search engine.  Results from MassMatrix have been used by researchers around the world in publications on Nature, Nature family journals, Science, Blood, PNAS, Modern Pathology, Molecular & Cellular Proteomics, JBC, and etc.  There are currently 592 registered users of the MassMatrix suite for PC and the online public server, including those from major pharmaceutical companies, such as GenenTech, Pfizer, Amgen, Abbott, GSK, Johnson & Johnson, and Sanofi.  To date, a total of 40,939 online search jobs have been performed on the MassMatrix public server at http://www.massmatrix.net since its release in Feburary 2009.
